[cxx-interop] Added an intro to Swift/C++ interoperability article (#90853)
swiftlang/swift: stdlib/stdlib.docc/enabling-c++-interoperability-in-your-project.md

When you enable C++ interoperability, your C++ class names, methods, and conventions translate to Swift exactly as the C++ author wrote them. That specificity can sometimes clash with Swift's naming expectations or with types that already exist in your project. The bridging macros in `swift/bridging` let you reshape how your C++ API appears in Swift so it reads like idiomatic Swift.

This article demonstrates how to enable interoperability, expose a C++ class to Swift through a module, and use the `SWIFT_NAME` macro to give the class a Swift-friendly name. The Swift code to use a new class is identical whether you're working in Swift Package Manager, the command line, or Xcode, and the workflow to expose your C++ to Swift is the same on macOS, Linux, and Windows.

## Enable C++ interoperability

Interoperability is off by default. Turning it on tells the Swift compiler to read your C++ declarations and make them callable from Swift.

If you're using Swift Package Manager, add `.interoperabilityMode(.Cxx)` to the `swiftSettings` of the Swift target that imports your C++ code rather than the C++ library target itself. You write the full `Package.swift` when you expose the module.

> For command line users, pass `-cxx-interoperability-mode=default` to `swiftc` when you compile the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Command-line users, pass `-cxx-interoperability-mode=default` to `swiftc` when you compile the project.
```

> If you're using Xcode, select your target and open the Build Settings tab. Search for the C++ and Objective-C Interoperability build setting, and set it to C++ / Objective-C++.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Xcode, select your target and open the Build Settings tab. Search for the C++ and Objective-C Interoperability build setting, and set it to C++/Objective-C++.
```

## Create your C++ class

The following example creates a C++ class called `Error`. Because Swift already has its own `Error`, rename it to `CxxErrorExample` as it crosses into Swift, and expose it through a module named `ErrorLib`. 

If you're using Swift Package Manager, put `Error.hpp` in your C++ target's public-headers directory, `Sources/ErrorLib/include/`, and `Error.cpp` in `Sources/ErrorLib/`. If you're building from the command line, create `Error.hpp` and `Error.cpp` in your project directory. And in Xcode:

1. Add a C++ file with File > New > File from Template… 
2. Check "Also create a header file" if the template doesn't make one. 
3. Add the file to your app target. If Xcode offers to create a bridging header, decline it.

> > Note: This article uses a module map instead. If a bridging header already exists, or you create one by accident, keep it. Deleting the file makes the build fail because Xcode still looks for the bridging header after you remove it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: The example in this article uses a module map instead of a bridging header. If a bridging header already exists, or you create one by accident, retain it. Deleting the file makes the build fail because Xcode looks for the bridging header after you remove it.
```

                    swiftSettings: [
                        .interoperabilityMode(.Cxx)
                    ]
                ),
            ],
            cxxLanguageStandard: .cxx17
        )
        ```

        Because `ErrorExample` depends on `ErrorLib` and turns on interoperability, Swift finds the `ErrorLib` module through the package graph and imports your C++ class. There's no `-I` flag or Import Paths setting to add.
    }
    @Tab("Command line") {
        Save `module.modulemap` in the same directory as your header file. Next to `header`, give the name of your header file; since this is C++, it ends in `.hpp`. Point Swift at its directory with `-I` when you compile.

        ```
        module ErrorLib {
            header "Error.hpp"
            export *
        }
        ```
    }
    @Tab("Xcode") {
        Add a new empty file named `module.modulemap` in the same directory as your header file with File > New > File from Template… and add it to your target. Next to `header`, give the name of your header file; since this is C++, it ends in `.hpp`.

        ```
        module ErrorLib {
            header "Error.hpp"
            export *
        }
        ```

>         In the target's build settings, add the directory that contains `module.modulemap` to Import Paths (the `SWIFT_INCLUDE_PATHS` build setting), such as `$(SRCROOT)/YourFolderName`. This step is the Xcode equivalent of the command-line `-I` flag. Without it, Swift can't locate the module map that defines `ErrorLib`, and the build fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In the target's build settings, add the directory that contains `module.modulemap`, such as `$(SRCROOT)/YourFolderName`, to Import Paths (the `SWIFT_INCLUDE_PATHS` build setting). This step is the Xcode equivalent of the command-line `-I` flag. Without it, Swift can't locate the module map that defines `ErrorLib`, and the build fails.
```

Calling the method also looks like any other Swift type: `error.print()` is just a method call, exactly like calling a method on a native Swift value.

## Compile your code

If you're using Swift Package Manager, run the executable with `swift run ErrorExample` from the package's root directory, the one containing `Package.swift`. Here, `ErrorExample` is the name of the executable target rather than the package, which is `ErrorLib`. Swift resolves the `import` through the package graph, and `CxxErrorExample` is available throughout the target. This prints `Error message!`.

If you're using the command line, compile the Swift and C++ together and run the result. The `-I .` points Swift at the directory holding `module.modulemap`, and a single invocation compiles both languages.

```
swiftc -cxx-interoperability-mode=default -I . main.swift Error.cpp -o main

./main
```

This code prints `Error message!`.

If you're using Xcode, build and run. The `import` resolves through your module map, and `CxxErrorExample` is available throughout the target. The app prints `Error message!`.

## Manage the instance's lifetime

> Swift imports a C++ class or struct as a value type by default, so `error` behaves like a Swift struct: there's no ARC and no manual `delete`, and Swift calls the C++ destructor when `error` goes out of scope. If you instead want reference semantics, `swift/bridging` provides macros like `SWIFT_SHARED_REFERENCE`.

Reviewer: Is it possible to link somewhere with more info about the macros? Or make `SWIFT_SHARED_REFERENCE` a link?

Reviewer 2: Those are documented here: https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop/#shared-reference-types

FWIW I also have a PR that overhauls the writing on FRTs: https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-org-website/pull/1435

# Enabling C++ interoperability in your project

Bring a C++ class into Swift under a Swift-friendly name.

## Overview

When you enable C++ interoperability, your C++ class names, methods, and conventions translate to Swift exactly as the C++ author wrote them. That specificity can sometimes clash with Swift's naming expectations or with types that already exist in your project. The bridging macros in `swift/bridging` let you reshape how your C++ API appears in Swift so it reads like idiomatic Swift.

> This article demonstrates how to enable interoperability, expose a C++ class to Swift through a module, and use the `SWIFT_NAME` macro to give the class a Swift-friendly name. The Swift code to use a new class is identical whether you're working in Swift Package Manager, the command line, or Xcode. The workflow to expose your C++ to Swift is the same on macOS, Linux, and Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article demonstrates how to enable interoperability, expose a C++ class to Swift through a module, and use the `SWIFT_NAME` macro to give the class a Swift-friendly name. The Swift code to use a new class is identical whether you're working in Swift Package Manager, the command line, or Xcode. The workflow to expose your C++ to Swift is the same on macOS, Linux, and Windows.

After you set up a working environment that mixes Swift and C++ code, you can find out more about Swift interoperability features at [Mixing Swift and C++](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop)."
```

If you're using the command line, compile the Swift and C++ together and run the result. The `-I .` points Swift at the directory holding `module.modulemap`, and a single invocation compiles both languages.

```
swiftc -cxx-interoperability-mode=default -I . main.swift Error.cpp -o main

./main
```

This code prints `Error message!`.

If you're using Xcode, build and run. The `import` resolves through your module map, and `CxxErrorExample` is available throughout the target. The app prints `Error message!`.

## Manage the instance's lifetime

Swift imports a C++ class or struct as a value type by default, so `error` behaves like a Swift struct: there's no ARC and no manual `delete`, and Swift calls the C++ destructor when `error` goes out of scope. If you instead want reference semantics, `swift/bridging` provides macros like [`SWIFT_SHARED_REFERENCE`](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop/#shared-reference-types).

> ## Take the next step

Reviewer: This isn't really a section--it's just one sentence. Maybe delete the heading ("Take the next step"), and include this sentence in the Overview? 

Maybe, "After you set up a working environment that mixes Swift and C++ code, you can find out more about Swift interoperability features at [Mixing Swift and C++](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop)"

Reviewer 3: For context, the link to "Mixing Swift and C++" is something we were specifically asked to add to the article.

I suggested Joey might want to make it a new section, because it doesn't flow contextually from the heading of the previous section, "Manage the instance's lifetime". So instead, we could make it a "next steps" section that wraps up the get-yourself-set-up narrative of the article.

A too-short final section isn't great, but I worry about overload/distraction by introducing the link as part of the overview, particularly because the article being linked to is a 12,000 word omnibus.

One idea that just occurred to me: what if Joey used this sentence at the end of the overview… _as an aside?_ Like this:

```
> Tip: After you set up a working environment that mixes Swift and C++ code, you can find out more about Swift interoperability features at [Mixing Swift and C++](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop)

> ## Take the next step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Enabling C++ interoperability in your project

Bring a C++ class into Swift under a Swift-friendly name.

## Overview

When you enable C++ interoperability, your C++ class names, methods, and conventions translate to Swift exactly as the C++ author wrote them. That specificity can sometimes clash with Swift's naming expectations or with types that already exist in your project. The bridging macros in `swift/bridging` let you reshape how your C++ API appears in Swift so it reads like idiomatic Swift.

This article demonstrates how to enable interoperability, expose a C++ class to Swift through a module, and use the `SWIFT_NAME` macro to give the class a Swift-friendly name. The Swift code to use a new class is identical whether you're working in Swift Package Manager, the command line, or Xcode. The workflow to expose your C++ to Swift is the same on macOS, Linux, and Windows.

> After you set up a working environment that mixes Swift and C++ code, you can find out more about Swift interoperability features at [Mixing Swift and C++](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop).

Reviewer 3: My comment got clobbered in a PR feedback race, but I'm a little concerned about people jumping into the linked article too soon, because it's big and hairy. Would making the link an aside perhaps clarify that this is optional and something the reader doesn't need to get distracted with right now?
```suggestion
> Tip: After you set up a working environment that mixes Swift and C++ code, you can find out more about Swift interoperability features at [Mixing Swift and C++](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop).
```
Also interested in @colleenish's opinion on this option.

Reviewer: This change sounds fine to me. The aside format makes it clear that this is separate from the steps in the rest of the article.

If you're using the command line, compile the Swift and C++ together and run the result. The `-I .` points Swift at the directory holding `module.modulemap`, and a single invocation compiles both languages.

```
swiftc -cxx-interoperability-mode=default -I . main.swift Error.cpp -o main

./main
```

This code prints `Error message!`.

If you're using Xcode, build and run. The `import` resolves through your module map, and `CxxErrorExample` is available throughout the target. The app prints `Error message!`.

## Manage the instance's lifetime

Swift imports a C++ class or struct as a value type by default, so `error` behaves like a Swift struct: there's no ARC and no manual `delete`, and Swift calls the C++ destructor when `error` goes out of scope. If you instead want reference semantics, `swift/bridging` provides macros like [`SWIFT_SHARED_REFERENCE`](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop/#shared-reference-types).

> Now that you have a working environment mixing Swift and C++ code, you can learn more about Swift interoperability features at [Mixing Swift and C++](https://www.swift.org/documentation/cxx-interop)

Reviewer 3: I think you need to remove this sentence, now that you've moved this to a sentence at the end of the overview (line 11).
```suggestion
```

# Enabling C++ interoperability in your project

Bring a C++ class into Swift under a Swift-friendly name.

## Overview

> When you turn on C++ interoperability, your C++ class names, methods, and conventions come across to Swift exactly as the C++ author wrote them. That often clashes with Swift's naming expectations or collides with types that already exist in your project. The bridging macros in `swift/bridging` let you reshape that boundary so the C++ API reads like idiomatic Swift.

Reviewer: What about "translate into" instead of "come across"? I feel like "come across" is an English language idiom, which might make it hard to localize.

> When you turn on C++ interoperability, your C++ class names, methods, and conventions come across to Swift exactly as the C++ author wrote them. That often clashes with Swift's naming expectations or collides with types that already exist in your project. The bridging macros in `swift/bridging` let you reshape that boundary so the C++ API reads like idiomatic Swift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you enable C++ interoperability, your C++ class names, methods, and conventions translate to Swift exactly as the C++ author wrote them. That specificity can clash with Swift's naming expectations or with types that already exist in your project. The bridging macros in `swift/bridging` let you reshape that boundary so the C++ API reads like idiomatic Swift.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean by "reshape that boundary".

> This article shows how to enable interoperability, expose a C++ class to Swift through a module, and use the `SWIFT_NAME` macro to give that class a Swift-friendly name. You write the same Swift code to use the class whether you choose Swift Package Manager, the command line, or Xcode, and the workflow is the same on macOS, Linux, and Windows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article demonstrates how to enable interoperability, expose a C++ class to Swift through a module, and use the `SWIFT_NAME` macro to give the class a Swift-friendly name. The Swift code to use a new class is identical whether you're working in Swift Package Manager, the command line, or Xcode, and the workflow to use the bridge is the same on macOS, Linux, and Windows.
```

Reviewer: Change okay? I wasn't sure what to do with "You write the same Swift code to use the class..." 

I'm also not sure "...the workflow _to use the bridge_ is the same..." is correct--I'm trying to be more specific about what "the workflow" refers to. Reword as necessary for accuracy.

> The running example is a C++ class called `Error`. Because Swift already has its own `Error`, you rename it to `CxxErrorExample` as it crosses into Swift, and expose it through a module named `ErrorLib`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Enable C++ interoperability

Interoperability is off by default. Turning it on tells the Swift compiler to read your C++ declarations and make them callable from Swift.

> If you're using Swift Package Manager, add `.interoperabilityMode(.Cxx)` to the `swiftSettings` of the Swift target that imports your C++ code, not the C++ library target itself. You write the full `Package.swift` when you expose the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using Swift Package Manager, add `.interoperabilityMode(.Cxx)` to the `swiftSettings` of the Swift target that imports your C++ code rather than the C++ library target itself. You write the full `Package.swift` when you expose the module.
```

> For command-line users, pass `-cxx-interoperability-mode=default` to `swiftc` when you compile the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For command-line users, pass `-cxx-interoperability-mode=default` to `swiftc` when you compile the project. If you're using Xcode, set the C++ and Objective-C Interoperability build setting to C++/Objective-C++ on your target and your project.
```

> If you're using Xcode, set the C++ and Objective-C Interoperability build setting to C++ / Objective-C++ on both your target and your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Create your C++ class

> If you're using Swift Package Manager, put `Error.hpp` in your C++ target's public-headers directory, `Sources/ErrorLib/include/`, and `Error.cpp` in `Sources/ErrorLib/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a C++ class called `Error`. Because Swift already has its own `Error`, rename it to `CxxErrorExample` as it crosses into Swift, and expose it through a module named `ErrorLib`. 

If you're using Swift Package Manager, put `Error.hpp` in your C++ target's public-headers directory, `Sources/ErrorLib/include/`, and `Error.cpp` in `Sources/ErrorLib/`. If you're building from the command line, create `Error.hpp` and `Error.cpp` in your project directory. And in Xcode:

1. Add a C++ file with File > New > File from Template… 
2. Check "Also create a header file" if the template doesn't make one. 
3. Add the file to your app target. If Xcode offers to create a bridging header, decline it. 
```

> If you're building from the command line, create `Error.hpp` and `Error.cpp` in your project directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If you're using Xcode, add a C++ file with File > New > File from Template… and check Also create a header file if the template doesn't make one. Add the file to your app target. If Xcode offers to create a bridging header, decline it. You don't need one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> A bridging header and a module map do the same job of exposing your C++ to Swift, so you only need one. This guide uses the module map you create next: it's the standard mechanism on macOS, Linux, and Windows, and it works in Xcode just as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _bridging header_ and a _module map_ perform the same job of exposing your C++ to Swift, so you only need one. This example uses the module map: it's the standard mechanism on macOS, Linux, and Windows, and it also works in Xcode.
```

Reviewer: Can we briefly define a bridging header and a module map?

> Define your class in a header, and add `#include <swift/bridging>` at the top. That header ships with the Swift toolchain and the compiler finds it automatically, with no extra search path to set. It's what gives you the bridging macros, including `SWIFT_NAME`, which controls how the class crosses over into Swift.

Reviewer: I'm confused: are these instructions on how to create a bridging header or a module map? It might be the order of information that's throwing me off: I think we need to move this sentence: "This example uses the module map: it's the standard mechanism on macOS, Linux, and Windows, and it also works in Xcode." down to where you describe how to create the module map.

> Define your class in a header, and add `#include <swift/bridging>` at the top. That header ships with the Swift toolchain and the compiler finds it automatically, with no extra search path to set. It's what gives you the bridging macros, including `SWIFT_NAME`, which controls how the class crosses over into Swift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define your class in a header, and add `#include <swift/bridging>` at the top. The header ships with the Swift toolchain and the compiler finds it automatically, with no extra search path to set. The header supplies the bridging macros, including `SWIFT_NAME`, which controls how the class crosses over into Swift.
```

Place `SWIFT_NAME` at the end of the declaration you want to rename: for a class, after the closing brace and before the semicolon; for a function, at the end of the declaration. Here you rename the class to `CxxErrorExample` so it doesn't collide with Swift's own `Error`. The macro only changes the name Swift sees. The C++ name stays `Error` for your C++ code.

The completed `Error.hpp` looks like this:

```cpp
#ifndef Error_hpp
#define Error_hpp

#include <stdio.h>
#include <string>
#include <swift/bridging>

class Error {
public:
    std::string print() const;
} SWIFT_NAME(CxxErrorExample);

#endif /* Error_hpp */
```

The matching implementation in `Error.cpp` defines the method:

```cpp
#include "Error.hpp"

std::string Error::print() const {
    return "Error message!";
}
```

Notice that `print()` is declared `const`. That matters on the Swift side, as the next section shows when you use the class.

## Expose the class through a module

> Swift imports C++ as a module: a module is the unit Swift brings in with `import`, and a module map is how you present a set of C++ headers to Swift as one importable unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swift imports C++ as a _module_, the unit Swift brings in with `import`, and a module map is how you present a set of C++ headers to Swift as one importable unit.
```

> The module name can't clash with an existing Swift import, type, or the name of your class. The class here is `Error`, so you name the module `ErrorLib` to keep it distinct from Swift's `Error`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module name can't replicate an existing Swift import, type, or the name of your class. In this example, the class is called `Error`, so rename the module `ErrorLib` to keep it distinct from Swift's `Error`.
```

            └── ErrorExample/
                └── main.swift
        ```

        Declare a C++ library target for the header and source. As well as a Swift executable target that depends on it and turns on interoperability:

        ```swift
        // swift-tools-version: 6.0

        import PackageDescription

        let package = Package(
            name: "ErrorLib",
            products: [
                .library(
                    name: "ErrorLib",
                    targets: ["ErrorLib"]
                ),
            ],
            targets: [
                .target(
                    name: "ErrorLib",
                    path: "Sources/ErrorLib",
                    publicHeadersPath: "include",
                    cxxSettings: [
                        .headerSearchPath("include")
                    ]
                ),
                .executableTarget(
                    name: "ErrorExample",
                    dependencies: ["ErrorLib"],
                    swiftSettings: [
                        .interoperabilityMode(.Cxx)
                    ]
                ),
            ],
            cxxLanguageStandard: .cxx17
        )
        ```

>         Because `ErrorExample` depends on `ErrorLib` and turns on interop, Swift finds the `ErrorLib` module through the package graph and imports your C++ class. There's no `-I` flag or Import Paths setting to add.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Because `ErrorExample` depends on `ErrorLib` and turns on interoperability, Swift finds the `ErrorLib` module through the package graph and imports your C++ class. There's no `-I` flag or Import Paths setting to add.
```

    }
    @Tab("Command line") {

>         Save `module.modulemap` in the same directory as your header file. Next to `header`, give the name of your header file; since this is C++, it ends in `.hpp`. You point Swift at its directory with `-I` when you compile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Save `module.modulemap` in the same directory as your header file. Next to `header`, give the name of your header file; since this is C++, it ends in `.hpp`. Point Swift at its directory with `-I` when you compile.
```

        ```
        module ErrorLib {
            header "Error.hpp"
            export *
        }
        ```
    }
    @Tab("Xcode") {
        Add a new empty file named `module.modulemap` in the same directory as your header file with File > New > File from Template… and add it to your target. Next to `header`, give the name of your header file; since this is C++, it ends in `.hpp`.

        ```
        module ErrorLib {
            header "Error.hpp"
            export *
        }
        ```

>         In the target's build settings, add the directory that contains `module.modulemap` to Import Paths (the `SWIFT_INCLUDE_PATHS` build setting), for example `$(SRCROOT)/YourFolderName`. This is the Xcode equivalent of the command-line `-I` flag. Without it, Swift can't locate the module map that defines `ErrorLib`, and the build fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        In the target's build settings, add the directory that contains `module.modulemap` to Import Paths (the `SWIFT_INCLUDE_PATHS` build setting), such as`$(SRCROOT)/YourFolderName`. This step is the Xcode equivalent of the command-line `-I` flag. Without it, Swift can't locate the module map that defines `ErrorLib`, and the build fails.
```

    }
}

## Use the C++ module from Swift

> In a Swift file, import the module by name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the C++ module, import it by name in a Swift file:
```

```swift
import ErrorLib
```

> `ErrorLib` is the module name you set up in the previous step. That's what gives Swift something to `import`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure you need these two sentences: they kind of feel like a repeat of the intro sentence. If there's any details here that you want to keep, maybe move it up to the introductory sentence?

Now create an instance and call its method in `main.swift`:

```swift
import ErrorLib

let error = CxxErrorExample()
let message = String(error.print())

print(message)
```

> Here you can use a `let` instead of a `var`. Swift imports a `const` C++ member function as a non-mutating method, so calling `error.print()` doesn't require the instance to be mutable. If you drop `const` from `print()`, Swift imports it as `mutating`. A mutating call on a `let` fails to compile, so you need a `var`. The `const` you wrote earlier is what lets this read like ordinary, idiomatic Swift.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you can use a `let` instead of a `var`. Swift imports a `const` C++ member function as a nonmutating method, so calling `error.print()` doesn't require the instance to be mutable. If you drop `const` from `print()`, Swift imports it as `mutating`. A mutating call on a `let` fails to compile, so you need a `var`. The `const` you wrote earlier is allows this code to read like ordinary, idiomatic Swift.
```

> The return value comes across just as smoothly, because `std::string` bridges to Swift's `String` for free. The `print()` method returns a C++ `std::string`, and Swift's C++ standard-library interoperability gives you a `String` initializer that converts it directly. That's all `String(error.print())` is doing, and you don't need to import anything extra for it.

Reviewer: Is the last sentence necessary? Seems like it's repeating what you already explained about ("you get 'String' for free").

> Calling the method also looks like any other Swift type: `error.print()` is just a method call, exactly like calling a method on a native Swift value, and the interop boundary disappears at the call site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calling the method also looks like any other Swift type: `error.print()` is just a method call, exactly like calling a method on a native Swift value, and the interoperability boundary disappears at the call site.
```

Reviewer: Again you're using the word "boundary" and I'm not familiar with it in this context. Maybe if we define it a little more on the first use in the Overview, it will make sense here.

If you're using Swift Package Manager, run the executable with `swift run ErrorExample` from the package's root directory, the one containing `Package.swift`. Here, `ErrorExample` is the name of the executable target rather than the package, which is `ErrorLib`. Swift resolves the `import` through the package graph, and `CxxErrorExample` is available throughout the target. This prints `Error message!`.

> For command-line users, compil e the Swift and C++ together and run the result. The `-I .` points Swift at the directory holding `module.modulemap`, and a single invocation compiles both languages. On macOS, prefix the command with `xcrun` so it uses your installed Xcode toolchain; on Linux and Windows, call `swiftc` directly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the command-line, compile the Swift and C++ together and run the result. The `-I .` points Swift at the directory holding `module.modulemap`, and a single invocation compiles both languages. On macOS, prefix the command with `xcrun` so it uses your installed Xcode toolchain; on Linux and Windows, call `swiftc` directly:
```

```
# macOS
xcrun swiftc -cxx-interoperability-mode=default -I . main.swift Error.cpp -o main

# Linux and Windows
swiftc -cxx-interoperability-mode=default -I . main.swift Error.cpp -o main

./main
```

> This prints `Error message!`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code prints `Error message!`.
```

Reviewer: Addition okay? Should it be something other than "code"?

If you're using Xcode, build and run. The `import` resolves through your module map, and `CxxErrorExample` is available throughout the target. The app prints `Error message!`.

## Manage the instance's lifetime

> Swift imports a C++ class or struct as a value type by default, so `error` behaves like a Swift struct: there's no ARC and no manual `delete`, and Swift calls the C++ destructor when `error` goes out of scope. If you instead want reference semantics, `swift/bridging` provides macros like `SWIFT_SHARED_REFERENCE.`

Reviewer: Should this be `Error` instead of `error`?

Reviewer 3: @colleenish Excuse my hopping in here… I'm pretty sure it's lower-case `error`, the instance created back on line 165.

> Swift imports a C++ class or struct as a value type by default, so `error` behaves like a Swift struct: there's no ARC and no manual `delete`, and Swift calls the C++ destructor when `error` goes out of scope. If you instead want reference semantics, `swift/bridging` provides macros like `SWIFT_SHARED_REFERENCE.`

Reviewer: What are "reference semantics"? Also, could we provide a link to more information about the macros?

Reviewer 3: @colleenish I think understanding "reference semantics" could be considered a prerequisite to working at the C++ interop level. It's a topic [introduced](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/documentation/the-swift-programming-language/classesandstructures#Classes-Are-Reference-Types) in _The Swift Programming Language_, and it's foundational to working with C++ at all (C++ adds objects to C, which you manage with references to the objects, hence the ubiquitous nature of "reference semantics", meaning that you're passing around pointers [aka, "references"] to objects rather than copying around the objects themselves).

# Enabling C++ interoperability in your project

Bring a C++ class into Swift under a Swift-friendly name.

## Overview

> When you enable C++ interoperability, your C++ class names, methods, and conventions translate to Swift exactly as the C++ author wrote them. That specificity can clash with Swift's naming expectations or with types that already exist in your project. The bridging macros in `swift/bridging` let you reshape that boundary so the C++ API reads like idiomatic Swift.

Reviewer 4: The naming clash feels like an edge case rather than a common usage scenario: I wouldn't expect many C++ codebases to define types like `Error` outside of a namespace. Since this is the beginning of the document, I wonder if it's worth describing more common patterns here.

        }
        ```

        In the target's build settings, add the directory that contains `module.modulemap` to Import Paths (the `SWIFT_INCLUDE_PATHS` build setting), such as`$(SRCROOT)/YourFolderName`. This step is the Xcode equivalent of the command-line `-I` flag. Without it, Swift can't locate the module map that defines `ErrorLib`, and the build fails.
    }
}

## Use the C++ module from Swift

To use the C++ module, import it by name in a Swift file:

```swift
import ErrorLib
```

`ErrorLib` is the module name you set up in the previous step. That's what gives Swift something to `import`.

Now create an instance and call its method in `main.swift`:

```swift
import ErrorLib

let error = CxxErrorExample()
let message = String(error.print())

print(message)
```

Here you can use a `let` instead of a `var`. Swift imports a `const` C++ member function as a nonmutating method, so calling `error.print()` doesn't require the instance to be mutable. If you drop `const` from `print()`, Swift imports it as `mutating`. A mutating call on a `let` fails to compile, so you need a `var`. The `const` you wrote earlier is allows this code to read like ordinary, idiomatic Swift.

> The return value comes across just as smoothly, because `std::string` bridges to Swift's `String` for free. The `print()` method returns a C++ `std::string`, and Swift's C++ standard-library interoperability gives you a `String` initializer that converts it directly. That's all `String(error.print())` is doing, and you don't need to import anything extra for it.

Reviewer 4: This isn't quite correct: the bridging between `std::string` and `String` isn't free in terms of runtime performance. Unlike Objective-C interoperability, bridging C++ strings to Swift and vice versa has a linear time complexity.

Calling the method also looks like any other Swift type: `error.print()` is just a method call, exactly like calling a method on a native Swift value, and the interoperability boundary disappears at the call site.

If you're using Swift Package Manager, run the executable with `swift run ErrorExample` from the package's root directory, the one containing `Package.swift`. Here, `ErrorExample` is the name of the executable target rather than the package, which is `ErrorLib`. Swift resolves the `import` through the package graph, and `CxxErrorExample` is available throughout the target. This prints `Error message!`.

> If you're using the command-line, compile the Swift and C++ together and run the result. The `-I .` points Swift at the directory holding `module.modulemap`, and a single invocation compiles both languages. On macOS, prefix the command with `xcrun` so it uses your installed Xcode toolchain; on Linux and Windows, call `swiftc` directly:

Reviewer 5: imo `xcrun` is not appropriate to mention here. for example I run all my `swiftc` commands directly on macOS.
